[t] cannon 
[r] i have owned this camera for a short time and would n't give it up for anything . it surpasses my greatest expectations in a 4mp camera .. 

[t] best camera i 've used 
[r] this is by far the finest camera in its price and category i have ever used . it is also one of the few electronic items that works right out of the box . the macro works great for medical photographs and the auto mode is terrific for point and shoot . 

[t] best non-slr digital camera under 5 megapixels 
[r] i 've been using the g3 for about six weeks and it has proven itself to be all that it 's advertised . after doing a hands-on comparison between the nikon coolpix 5700 and sony dsc-f 717 ( both of which lack the quality , feel , or features of the g3 ) , i ultimately chose the g3 because of its outstanding image quality ( resolution and coloration are superior ) . it beats the competition in almost every area including battery life , enthusiast features , external flash capabilities , available storage types , image formats , and more . this is a camera you will need to study and use in order to fully exploit its many features . it can be a point-and-shoot camera , but if you do not intend to " get into " it 's finer features , i 'd suggest a less enthusiast featured choice . all-in-all , i believe this is arguably the best non-slr digital camera on the market . 

[t] boxy ? no -- gorgeous 
[r] you can read the other reviews for specs and performance opinions . i was perfectly happy with my g2 , so why did i trade up to the g3 ? because this camera is beautiful . the g2 was slightly curvy with a champagne finish -- very homely . the g3 looks like a work of art ! its silver magnesium finish is stunning , and the sharp lines and excellent grip are better than any other camera i 've seen . the little digital elphs were the best-designed , most-elegant cameras until the g3 came along and squashed them . 

[t] excellent picture quality / color 
[r] i recently purchased the canon powershot g3 and am extremely satisfied with the purchase . the camera is very easy to use , in fact on a recent trip this past week i was asked to take a picture of a vacationing elderly group . after i took their picture with their camera , they offered to take a picture of us . i just told them , press halfway , wait for the box to turn green and press the rest of the way . they fired away and the picture turned out quite nicely . ( as all of my pictures have thusfar ) . a few of my work constituants owned the g2 and highly recommended the canon for picture quality . i 'm easily enlarging pictures to 8 1/2 x 11 with no visable loss in picture quality and not even using the best possible setting as yet ( super fine ) . ensure you get a larger flash , 128 or 256 , some are selling with the larger flash , 32mb will do in a pinch but you 'll quickly want a larger flash card as with any of the 4mp cameras . bottom line , well made camera , easy to use , very flexible and powerful features to include the ability to use external flash and lense / filters choices . i 'd highly recommend this camera for anyone who is looking for excellent quality pictures and a combination of ease of use and the flexibility to get advanced with many options to adjust if you like . great job canon ! 

[t] great digital camera 
[r] after reading the very positive review of this camera in a leading consumer magazine , i decided to head here , to amazon , to read through the online reviews . the objections of the naysayers almost caused me to purchase a different camera , but , in the end , i figured i 'd give the g3 a try . i 'm very glad i did . the service from the supplier was exceptional . the camera arrived on time and in perfect condition . having used it for more than a month , i can say that it consistently produces topnotch photos . recently , i attended a " flyball " competition -- an event that involves dogs running and jumping hurdles . by cocking the shutter to the halfway position and getting the settings ready to shoot , i was able to produce excellent stopaction photos -- contrary to what other reviewers experienced . the camera is a dream to operate in automode , but also gives tremendous flexibility in aperture priority , shutter priority , and manual modes . in the coastal redwood forests i was able to use these additional features along with the macro-focussing option to shoot wonderful close-up photos of the trilliums and other flowers in bloom . about the only legitimate criticsm from the online reviews is that fact that the lens really does obstruct the viewfinder . this effect is increased when one buys and uses a telephoto doubler . but who cares ? i always shoot using the lcd panel . i can 't write enough positive things about this great little camera ! 

[t] best of the best 
[r] best camera ever . from the image quality , color , function , i can say almost everything . this camera has a cool stitch pictures feature , to find out more just log on to canon 's website . i had an olympus digital camera before and it was nothing compared to this . for those of you who already bought this camera , i suggest you buy a hi-ti dye-sub photo printer . 

[t] excellent camera 
[r] i spent a lot of time comparing different cameras , and i realized that there is not such thing as the best digital camera . you can always spend more money to get a better one . however , for a $ 600 - $ 800 budget , i think this camera is an excellent choice . it has a beautiful design , lots of features , very easy to use , very configurable and customizable , and the battery duration is amazing ! also , the display is " hinged " and it can be placed in a myriad of positions , or to protect it against any damage . excellent idea ! one bad thing is that it comes with a pitiful 32mb compactflash card , and for most purposes , it is not enough . however , it seems that this is the general rule for most digital cameras . another good thing is that this camera seems to introduce much less noise in dark places than others i 've seen . 

[t] the best of everything 
[r] recent price drops have made the g3 the best bargain in digital cameras currently available . advanced photobugs will find more creative control than imaginable . newbies will find the full auto setting will give them perfect pictures right out of the box . 4 megapixels is enough for anybody and the photo quality is awesome . do n't get fooled by the 5 megapixel marketing hype . unless you want to print murals , you do n't need it . those used to 35mm cameras will find the g3 very comfortable and friendly to use . anyone looking for more than " point and shoot " can make a huge step up for a moderate price difference . the extended zoom range and faster lense put it at the top of it 's class . i expect the g3 will please me for years to come . 

[t] great camera but g2 will do the same for less 
[r] definetely a great camera . proven canon built quality and lens . feels solid in hand . rather heavy for point and shoot but a great camera for semi pros . 

[t] awesome pro-sumer camera 
[r] when shopping for digital cameras i looked at the nikon cp5700 , olympus c5050 , nikon cp5000 , and the canon g3 . yes , all cameras except g3 were 5mp but i was looking for a lot more than just megapixel power . not only was i was shopping for a camera that would suit my casual and artistic photographic needs , i had to keep in mind that my fiance wanted to use this camera as well . her main focus was having a camera that is easy to understand and use . the nikon 's are great cameras . + they have great optics ( cp5700 has great optical zoom ) and features , not to mention take great pictures . - the drawbacks were that they were not user friendly for the casual photographer , the lcd screen is a little too small , cp5000 does not take photos in raw format . olympus c5050 is a very solid camera with a metal body . + takes sharp 5mp photo 's , has great features and relatively easy to use . - i did n't care much for the tilting lcd screen , it seemed very limited and not very usefull . photos had some artifacts and noise . my fiance just did n't like the way it felt in her hands . we also looked at the fuji fps602 . nice camera but does n't take as sharp as pictures i thought they would , and again . fiance did n't like the feel . the canon g3 . 4mp , 4x optical zoom , takes absolutely beautiful photos with detail that challenges all of the above 5mp cameras , easy to understand and use ( has a great swivel lcd screen ) , a lot of features and add-on options , comes with great software ( not to be overlooked ) , and last but by far not least , received my fiance 's stamp of approval ( two thumbs up ! ) a lot of research went into digital camera 's before i made this purchase , and hands down , the g3 had everything i needed plus more . the other cameras were great and i 'm sure many people will beg to differ from my observations , but to each his / her own . i have no buyers remorse with this baby , and i never will . always remember , cameras do n't take great pictures , people do ! 

[t] love it more and more 
[r] i used a canon powershot s20 for about 2.5 years and loved it ! there were a few flaws that i learned to deal with and took thousands of pictures around the world , losing a few that i really regretted . i finally decided to upgrade , and started my research . canon was an obvious choice , but i did not want to limit my decision , so started researching all brands that would take my microdrives . i researched , held , tested , and observed 3 different brands . needless to say , the canon won , hands down . this camera performs like i can not believe ! i bought it for my trip to beunos aires , and also used it at the iguazu falls , and could not have asked for more perfect performance ! it was too new to have learned much about the advanced features , so i generally used the auto mode . this camera is worth every penny , and i highly recommend it ! another point of note : the battery life is incredible ! i did not have a backup battery , and had no need for one . i did have ability to charge it every night , so do n't know how long it would have actually gone before dying . this camera will stay with me for years ! 

[t] fantastic digital camera 
[r] the camera has a wonderful set of features . the lcd screen pulls out and rotates in any direction for easy pictures . you can even take a picture of yourself while looking at the lcd . the optical zoom works great and the 14x digital zoom is a very nice addition although pictures at the highest digital zoom are a little blurry . the highest optical zoom pictures are perfect . i have not yet seen any of the usual problems with digital pictures ( purple fringing , etc ) so i am very pleased . the canon computer software used to download , sort , upload and manage your digital pictures on the computer is very nice and very easy to use . the only two minor issues i have with the camera are the lens cap ( it is not very snug and can come off too easily ) and the lens itself ( it partially obstructs the view through the viewfinder but not views through the lcd ) . the menus are easy to navigate and the buttons are easy to use . it is a fantastic camera and well worth the price . 

[t] knock your socks off great 
[r] i 've had this for 3 months now , and i am pleased with my decision . this is the perfect camera for a photo hobbiest who wants to have easy point and shoot ability as well . my girlfriend loved using this camera so much as a point and shoot that i had to pry it out of her hands most of the time . battery life , the drawback to most digital cameras , to quote k. reeves . whoa . manual functionality is excellent , downloading pictures is quick and a breeze , and the quality is astounding . i did a good month 's worth of research before buying this over other similar priced digital cameras , and this is the best buy for the buck . not perfect ( yes , the viewfinder can get obstructed in instances.but the lcd works well enough in those instances ) , not the cheapest 4.0 mp , but the best 4.0 mp . if you do n't believe me on that , check the consumer reports review as well as the many digital camera review sites out there . or save time and just do it , you wo n't regret it . 

[t] outstanding camera 
[r] this is my first digital camera , and i am very pleased with it . i do not know a whole lot about photography , but i am happy to know that this camera can always perform , even as i grow in skill and knowledge . seriously , this thing has everything that a pro or expert amateur could want . but at the same time , it takes wonderful pictures very easily in " auto " mode , so that even an average joe like me can use it ! four megapixels is great . i know there are five mp cameras out there , but this thing does just fine for me . if you want , check out the canon website and they have some sample images , taken by this camera , for you to download . if you are looking for a very simple point and shoot camera , this is probably not what you are looking for . if you are looking for an outstanding camera that can take you from simple to complex , this is it . it is a very amazing product . i highly recommend it . 

[t] this camera is closest to perfect than any otherdigicam 
[r] this camera is closest to perfect than any other digicam that is 4-5 megapixel . beats that sony f717 ; its archrival . i 'm glad canon decided to keep the 4mp resolution and improved upon it with new technology ; i can 't fit all that resolution ( 4mp = 2272x 1704 resol . ) in my 19in flat monitor ( 1200x1024 resol . ) anyways . please go to read dpreview.com and you 'll get the complete story . my story is based on personal usage . yes there is a corner lens barrel distortion ( i do n't like it too but no harm done since i always use the camea lcd screen to see exactly what i 'm going to get ) in the viewfinder when you do n't zoom ( when you zoom the lens distortion goes away ) , canon knows this and engineered it that way to minimize the parallax phenomenon ; that is what lmost exactly ot the picture . moving the viewfinder elsewhere on the camera will remove the lens distortion but increase the parallax phenomenon . the distortion is not a flaw . as with taking digital pictures , i notice other people including myself have errors on their compactflash which results in certain shots being partially taken or lost - this is an issue that seems to effect compactflash and other digicam brand . i 've have n't heard about a diagnos or fix for this . in terms of the shots taken , this camera is insanely great ! the pictures are fabulous and their is a ( short ) learning curve to it ; there are tons of features i have n't even gotten to . in terms of the important accessories , i got myself an the extra litium battery . based on my used , 1 full charge was enough for at least 255 shots . i also got myself a 512mb viking compact flash ( enough for 255 shots at full 4mp resolution and max picture quality ) and a used $ 250 3lb subnotebook with usb connection and tons of hard drive space for long trips so i can verify what i 've taken and that subnotebook also saves me from having to buy extra compactflash . the compact flash is delicate and i hate to swap it in fear on the connetions ( camera and cf ) bending ( can lead to cf erros ) or losing it . anyways , canon has improved upon the g2 with this g3 . it 's a winner . i 've been pleased with the picture quality and durability in snow , car , boat and wind . my only suggestion is to get a lens protector to help protect the shooting lens ( the lens coating will wear out after so many clean wipes ) and i 'm getting the those ( 52 mm adapter and uv lens filter ) at lensmateonline.com . they got the best lens adapter for the g3-better than canon 's . that 's what i did and hopes this helps . 

[t] the last digital camera i 'll buy 
[r] i 've been looking to buy a digital camera for a long time and v = finally decided that now was the time . after a lot of research , i decided on the g3 . am i ever glad that i decided on this camera ! i 've only had it a week , but so far , everything about this camera is making me happy . forget the fact that it 'll probably take me a year to figure out all the features this camera has to offer . i 've been able to change modes on this thing without even looking at the manual . very intuitive menus are a big plus on this camera . i charged it up the day i got it , took a bunch of pictures and i do n't think the battery indicator has budged from fully charged . the standard battery include with the g3 is a camcorder battery that will allow me to take pictures all day without worrying about charging . i was worried about this after seeing a friend change batteries on his olympus after about 20-30 pictures . the optical zoom is awesome , and the viewfinder reflects the settings of the zoom . one little minor flaw with this camera is that the lens is visible in the viewfinder , but does not detract from the image at all . as i said , this is the last digital camera i 'll buy , and if you are in the market one , my advice is to buy the best thing you can afford and keep it forever . these things may get a lot better in the future , but from what i 've seen in the last few years , the technology for digital cameras is n't advancing at the pace of pc 's , phones and hard drives . the best 4 megapixel/4x optical zoom camera available and fairly easy to use . highly recommended . for more info on digital cameras , go to dpreviews . 

[t] 100 % happy 
[r] this is my first digital camera and i could n't be happier . i have but plan on selling my rebel ti and all of the equipment with it . i love the quality of the pictures . they look fantastic . i can take better pictures with this then my rebel ti with a good lens . it 's just easier for me since i can make on the fly adjustments . 

[t] if you love an slr 35mm but need to go digital 
[r] this is a great camera for you ! the canon g3 gives tons of control for photo buffs but still has an " auto " mode that makes it very easy for the novice to use . i can hand this to anyone and know they will take some great photos ! i love having the option to manually control the f-stop , shutter speed and even focus . i was able to take great photos of the 4th of july fire works , and got some amazing shots of the kids playing with sparklers . warning - i did read the manual ! but if you 've used a slr 35mm camera , the controls are very intuitive ! once i read the manual i was able to point and shoot without having to fumble around trying to figure out where the controls are located . with a quick spin of the dial you can select shutter priority ( for high speed subjects ) , aperture priority ( for focal length ) or full program mode where the camera selects both for ideal photo quality . the manual mode is easy to use with fast access for the selection of shutter speed and aperture without having to fumble through menu options . it does n't do you any good if a camera has all the features but you can 't access them quickly when you need them ! this camera also has a great feel and weight to it . you feel like you are holding something of substance , not some cheap plastic toy . the more i work with it , the more i love it ! i would recomend that you purchase a lexar media cf for the camera as the sandisk card that comes packaged is too small and too slow ! i did n't think i would find this quality and ease of use for under $ 1500 - i 'm thrilled with my purchase ! 

[t] the best so far 
[r] the canon g3 improves in almost all ways on the g1 and g2 before it , and in fact beats the nikon coolpix 5000 in performance ( picture quality and battery life ) -- which is amazing because the 5000 is a 5 megapixel camera and the canon is a 4 megapixel camera . canon 's optics are better and i believe their processing algorithms are also better . simply , the canon g3 is the best digital camera out there today at this price point . the canon allows you to change lenses , and it accepts the ibm microdrive ( type ii compact flash ) , so you can have up to 1 gigabyte of storage . for me on the fine resolution setting ( not maximum but very close ) this adds up to over 1000 images with the 1 gig card . the battery life of this camera is twice that of the nikon 5000 and is better than anything else i 've seen . the only minor nits i have with the camera are it is fairly boxy looking , it needs a wrist strap instead of a neck strap , and it is a bit slow between shots . even with these shortcomings , i still think it is the best digital camera available under $ 1200 . 

[t] canon g3 ? incredible camera 
[r] i did extensive research comparing different 4 and 5 megapixel cameras . a couple of online camera review sites were extremely helpful , as they provided complete exhaustive reviews of nearly every camera made , plus provided a great number of high resolution sample images to compare amongst the models . following my research , i decided on the g3 . in a word , " awesome " is how i would describe this camera . i wo n't go into the details here , as the online sites ( stevesdigicams , dpreviews ) go into great depth in their reviews , but i am very pleased with the features , the speed , the picture quality , the flexibility , the automation , and the functional conveniences this camera offers . with the automatic settings , i really have n't taken a bad picture yet . and with the panoramic " stitch " mode , it guides you through stitching together multiple pictures to build a seamless panoramic image . i am absolutely in awe of this camera , canon put enormous quality into the g3 . do n't walk , run and buy this camera if you have the budget , i guarantee you will not be disappointed . 

[t] excellent for the semi-serious amateur 
[r] positives 1 ) slr like programming and exposure control gives you latitude to be creative , yet its progam and auto exposure settings provide excellent photos if you do n't want to bother with the settings . excellent range of metering options as well . it 's great to switch to spot metering and actually see it working on the lcd screen . 2 ) 4mp is about right for the target market of this camera ( semi-serious amateur photographer ) 3 ) 4x zoom is nice 4 ) the great thing about digital , in general , is that you can generally see the results of your exposure settings on the lcd screen before you take the picture , not two weeks later when you get the film developed . 5 ) its focusing system is also very flexible . you can move the focus range to almost anywhere in the scene with the push of a button , and it has an on-screen manual focus mode that would be really helpful if shooting a scene that is tough to automatically focus . negatives 1 ) quite bulky ( it 's about the same size as my minolta vectis s-1 aps slr ) and uses a heavy battery , although not very solid as it is contructed mostly of plastic ( unlike canon 's elph line ) 2 ) not very ergonomical - you 'll find even for a point-and-shoot lens ) 4 ) the viewfinder is borderuer lcd scoying . 

[t] love the g2 
[r] i love my g2 so thought i would upgrade . big mistake . the g3 had problems focusing in low light and would not take the picture when the shutter was pressed but after the shutter had been released a few seconds . got way too many blurry pictures . i have returned the g3 ( actually i tried two of them ) and have my g2 ! 

[t] cool toy
[r] yep . this is my first digital camera , and what a ' toy ' it is ! i am a software engineer and am very keen into technical details of everything i buy , i spend around 3 months before buying the digital camera ; and i must say , g3 worth every single cent i spent on it . just a little overview , powershot g3 is the flagship of canon 's powershot series and its an slr-like camera , its 4 megapixel and ( alsmost ) full manual control gives the pictures a touch of brilliance . whether you are a novice or an expert , its ease of use and functionality goes together . + you can have different kind of lens if you want + flashes , etc. as its 4mp , you might need bigger storage to store high quality images and recording movies ( you can record 3 minutes of video ) . i am using kingston 512mb cf which works great and is very fast . a good choice could be cf type ii , microdrives that can store around 1 gb of images . some things that i did n't like ( but hey . nothing is perfect ). * main dial is not backlit . * lens visible in optical viewfinder . ( well thats only for old-school die-hard optical viewfinder fans ) use lcd instead which is brilliant and you can twist around too . overall i 'm happy with my toy . 

[t] love my new g 3 
[r] just received this camera two days ago and already love the features it has . takes excellent photos . night mode is clear as day . i have not played with all the features yet , but the camera is easy to use once you get used to it . the only drawback is the viewfinder is slightly blocked by the lens . however , using the lcd seems to eliminate this minor problem . overall it is the best camera on the market . i give it 10 stars ! 

[t] major design flaw 
[r] this camera has a major design flaw . when you look through the viewfinder ( not the lcd ) the bottom left corner of the picture ( about 15 % ) is blocked by the lens . i called the canon technical service center to see if i had a defective camera . after about a minute of trying to tell me that most people use the lcd and not the viewfinder , they finally admitted , it was a design flaw in the camera . everything else about the camera is great . if you strictly use the lcd and not the viewfinder , i highly recommend the camera . however for me , i occasionally use the viewfinder and trying to frame in a picture with the lens blocking the view is too much . i 'm sending mine back and am waiting for the problem to be corrected . 

[t] the pictures are brillient 
[r] i just bought the camera a few days ago . before i " get used to it " , here are my first feelings : a ) the picture quality ( color and sharpness of focusing ) are so great , it completely eliminated my doubt about digital imaging --- how could one eat rice one grain at a time : - ) ) b ) the lens cover is surely loose , i already accidently finger-printed the len a few times , and au lens tigt and cause potential damage . i wish canon would work out some way for that issue . the zooming lever is shaky , i hope it does not operate mechanically , otherwise you 'll feel uneasy . 

[t] pure class & quality - a work of craftmanship 
[r] i recommend unreservedly the powershot g3 to any potential buyer looking for a first-class digital camera at a reasonable price - there is no better camera out there - period ! it gives great pictures , the controls are easy to use , the battery lasts forever on one single charge , the software is very user-friendly and it is beautiful in it chrome casing . i began taking pics as soon as i got this camera and am amazed at the quality of photos i have took simply by using the auto mode . absolutely breathtaking . i was considering the olympus camedia c-5050 but was convinced to buy the g3 after visiting a store and holding it in my hands and trying it out . the olympus is a bit clumsy-looking and the user-interface not as friendly as the canon , but one of the features that sold me on the g3 was the battery life - no other camera out there gives you the type of battery life as the canon g3 . i would recommend a larger compact-flash card , at least 128 mb . i bought a 512 mb card by simpletech and it works great with my canon . 

[t] great camera 
[r] what else can you say about a camera that works for both of you ? i make photographs at work , and so wanted a camera good enough to compare with what i use professionally . at the same time , i wanted my wife to not be intimidated by knobs and buttons . i recieved the camera , inserted a larger cf card , charged the battery , and handed it to my wife . i showed her how to turn it on , where the lens zoom lever is , and she loves it ! this camera has canon 's great colorimetry , plus what you see in the lcd is what you get . the prints are beautiful ! and you get about 120 images on a 256mb card at highest quality . i tried out some other brands in the stores , and was disappointed by the battery life of the other company ; plus what you see in the lcd ( no optical finder ) is n't what you get - not even for color ; the output was less than i expected . although canon 's batteries are proprietary , they last a really long time , recharge fairly quickly in the camera , plus if you want ' more power ' , you can even find a knockoff charger and spare batteries right here on amazon . 

[t] canon never ceases to amaze 
[r] being a great fan of the g2 i set out with g3 with a somewhat negative expectation , difficult as it is to improve drastically on something already as ' perfect ' as the powershot g2 . but canon never fails to amaze . some of the great gains over g2 -- 1 . the ability to selectively switch to raw format during record review gives you incredible more post-processing flexibility . 2 . battery life is over 4.5 hours , compared to about 2.5 hours for the g2 or the 2 hours for most nikons . 3 . the remote capture and fileviewer software bundled for photo capture is mind-blowing . looks sort of like picasa software ( google it if you dont know ) in the interface and is as easy to install and operate as g2 's , but more intuitive . 4 . the shape of this device is a little squarer , without losing the weight which means better balance and less shaking while clicking . a big plus in my book . 5 . the 1/200 sec , f5.6 + nd filter for highly exposed ( or very brightly lit ) environments . the light auto-correction is awesome . you could take a picture of a stone glinting in the sun and still avoid the shining glaze and get the contours right . 6 . the g2 's " color effect " exposure mode has now been removed , the replacement is a selectable " effect func " menu option available in all exposure modes . there are six default settings ( off , vivid , sepia , neutral , low sharpening , b & w ) as well as a ' custom effect ' that allows you to control sharpening , contrast and saturation . 7 . a new photostich software for stiching your pics into a panoramic view . i can of course buy such a tool off the shelves separately but helps if it comes with my camera . ( looks quite neat too suggesting that canon may have , er , canonized it a bit ). 8 . perhaps inspired by the canon 's factory white-correction settings ( which were found lacking and had to be altered by a user before the white edges from buildings etc could be cleaned out ) , the g3 has much sharper white offsets . in english , this means that even straight out of the box , you 'll be amazed at the pics you end up taking . 9 . in dim lit environs the g2 could easily outperform any other camera , and thankfully g3 maintains this rep . personally i believe it even outperforms the g2 in terms of less haze and astonishingly real colors . overall , the g3 delivers what must be considered the best image quality of any current > 4 megapixel digicams , from a detail , tonal balance and color response point of view . there 's really very little about g3 images to criticize . short of the eos range from canon or the d100s from nikon ( both slrs ) .this is quite simply the best you can ask for . 

[t] very good choice in it 's price range 
[r] this is my first digital camera . i am very pleased with it so far . i wanted something that is able to take high quality photos but not be so bulky that i would wind up leaving it at home all the time . this seemed like a really good compromise . i compared it to the olympus c5050z , the sony dcs-f 717 and the nikon 5700 . based on the cameras features and about dozen online reviews , this one seemed like the best all round deal . it is not perfect though . here are the shortcomings i have noticed so far : it would have been a much easier choice if this were 5mp camera . you can see the lens barrel in the view-finder . ( i knew this before hand , and it is not that bad ) there is no tiff format . that would be a nice compromise between jpeg and raw . to save a picture as raw , you have to have the display on , this seems like a waste of battery power . it seems to me that after the focus and metering are complete there is quite a lag before the shutter ? trips . ( again this is my first digital camera and maybe that is just how they all are . ) for those of you using a mac in os x+ there is no twain utility to download your pics directly into photoshop . it is very simple to import via iphoto 2 and then move them to photoshop . i have not spent much time with the included software , so i don't know what to say about it other than it seems ok . i am quite happy with the camera . it comes with a clearly written manual and the learning curve is not too too steep . yes , i recommend it over the competition . 

[t] i love it more the longer i own it 
[r] i 've been using a powershot s330 for nearly a year , and wanted to upgrade to a 4 or 5 megapixel camera with a longer zoom , more adjustability , a hot shoe for an external flash , and a remote control . i looked at both the nikon coolpix 5700 and the canon g3 , and decided on the g3 due both to ergonomics ( much more comfortable to hold and use ) and the price . i 've had the camera for about two weeks and shot hundreds of pictures so far . and so far , i 've been very pleased . there 's a noticeable difference in the quality of a 4 megapixel image versus the 2 megapixels of the s330 , especially if you want to crop and enlarge the pictures . the larger lens of the g3 gives better picture quality in low light , and the 4-times optical zooms gets you just that much closer . the moveable lcd screen is great . you can take pictures with the camera held above your head , way down , or beside you with no problem , allowing you to position the camera for the best shot without contorting yourself . the tiny ( postage-stamp sized ) remote unit is wonderful : not only does it trigger the shutter , it can also be used to zoom and review pictures . i also purchased a good sturdy tripod : the combination of the new camera , tripod and remote control enabled me to take some remarkable indoor , natural-light portraits i never would have attempted before . the hot shoe flash attachment allowed me to buy and use a sophisticated flash unit : i chose the canon speedlite 420 . this has made the greatest difference in the quality of my photographs : the built-in flash on any of these cameras gives you flat photos , red-eye , and annoying shadows ; a good add-on flash unit can be bounced off the ceiling or wall for pleasing , almost-natural lighting . i needed three batteries to keep myself going with the s330 , but the battery in the g3 is a real powerhouse : i shot over 300 photos at my goddaughter 's birthday party without switching out to my backup battery . the g3 has a different type of battery charging system from the smaller canon cameras : the battery needs to be charged while in the camera , but the charging system also enables you to use the camera while plugged in without running down the battery . i have yet to try using all of the adjustment options : shutter priority , aperature priority , light metering adjustments , etc. , but all controls are well thought out and and the manual is relatively clear . you can use this camera right out of the box on the automatic setting , or slowly get comfortable with the manual settings and what they can do . negatives ? i 've been bothered by blown-out highlights on the s330 , and the g3 seems to do only slightly better . ( i 'm starting to think that this may just be one of the weaknesses of all digital photography at this level . ) the on-off button feels somewhat flimsy , and has an awkward , tiny little lock-out button that needs to be depressed to turn on the camera . and the body / construction in general has quite a bit of plastic , a disappointment after the stainless steel heft of the s330 . i bought a 512 mb card , which seems to hold about 400 photos at the highest resolution . i was worried that 4 megapixel photos would download more slowly , but there 's no difference in working with the files . i have a 120 gb remote drive i use to store my digital images : i can imagine that they 'd fill up my ibook 's internal memory pretty quickly . at the same time i purchased this camera i also bought adobe 's photoshop elments 2.0 software , and can 't praise it highly enough . if you 're investing in a camera at this level , buy this software ! and as i said in my review of the s330 , all of these digital cameras are easier to use with apple computers . the bottom line : if you 're serious about your digital photography , or been bitten with the bug after using a digital point-and-shoot , this may be just the camera for you . but make sure to buy a tripod and separate flash unit at the same time : you 'll see the difference in your photos immediately . added 2-24 . i 've now had the camera for two months and i 'm even more pleased with it . i wound up buying a gray card and use it all the time with the custom white-balance setting . it helps avoid the problem of a color cast on the pictures , especially in mixed-light settings . if you do n't have a gray card , you can use a plain white piece of paper . i also discovered the exposure-bracket setting , which enables you to take three exposures with one press of the shutter : the first at the camera-determined exposure , then one lighter and one darker . especially useful with portraits and difficult-to-meter situations . i did buy the telephoto lens ( and the required extension ) . very easy to use . i 'll probably also get the wide-angle now , too . very comfortable camera , easy to use , and the best digital photos you 're going to get at this price . 

[t] ok for a digital camera 
[r] maybe it is my lack of experience , but i found shots with this camera very disappointing . it was ( i sold it after a few months ) too expensive for the shots that i got . sure it had all the features , but when i tried to shoot a girl 's basketball game it just wan't up to the task . i do n't think i was asking too much . any film zoom p and s would have given superior results with a minimal effort . and with the 500 you save you could print the results for the life of the camera . i found that low light situations combined with any sort of action left this camera in the dust . i wanted it to shoot concerts as well . that meant even less light and just as much action . sure , i adjusted the film speed to 400 . the grain was terrible . next time i set it at 100 and used the flash . well flash photos are never great , and there was still a lot of noise . when i took outdoor photos with plenty of light and the objects were n't moving , the photos were awesome . the camera was a marvel . getting the printer to help output them was another tale . overall i think that you need to consider what you wan't to do . for simple point and shoot photography , consider a cheaper digital . you do n't need the extra resolution or the cost . then again a one time use camera may do just as well . if you shoot in lots of light and desire high quality , this will be your camera . it is versatile and seems to be one of the best . me , i am going with a leica minilux ( the g3 was replacing mine which was stolen ) . sure . it is less versatile , but i am never disappointed with the output . 

[t] great camera 
[r] i bought my canon g3 about a month ago and i have to say i am very satisfied . i have taken hundreds of photos with it and i continue to be amazed by their quality . the g3 is loaded with many useful features , and unlike many smaller digital cameras , it is easy to hold steady when using slower shutter speeds . flaws ? the lens is visible in the viewfinder when the lens is set to the wide angle , but since i use the lcd most of the time , this is not really much of a bother to me . still i am a little suprised that canon did not correct this design flaw before releasing the camera . despite this minor disappointment , i highly recommend the canon g3 anyone who is serious about digital photography . 

[t] powerful product 
[r] bought this product about a month ago and have used it in a variety of situations . in general it is easy to use and well laid out . for `` cool factor '' buffs it looks and feels like a small plastic brick brick and does n't have any wow factor . it makes up for this by being extremely easy to use with well laid out controls that can be learned quickly . the g3 has most if not all of the features that you would want from a semi-pro / pro slr with a good range of manual options for those who know something about photography . in the hands of someone who does n't , it will yield good results on idiot program / auto mode . my wife , who has never used a camera before , picked it up and soon got the hang of the fact that if you do n't like what you have created you just delete and try again . the photos she took are better than the results i got from my nikon slr and range of lenses ! this is a big plus for those who a shifting to digital and the g3 's large mobile screen helps with this . negative points : the included memory card is too small . go out and get a 256meg card , it 's worth the expense . it is made of plastic . for those who are used to brass cameras that can be dropped , picking up a camera like the g3 is an unnerving experience . this is by no means unique to this model , i 'm sure . the zoom lens unit feels fragile and it is worth buying a good camera bag if you are going put to carry it round a lot . this is not a handbag camera . while light , it will not easily go in small handbags or pockets . the function lever - the one which switches between capture and view mode feels fragile . flash - as with all built-in flashes in small cameras , you get overilluminated main subjects with depth being lost . the g3 has a shoe which will take other powerful ( and expensive ) canon flashes that will allow bounce and reflected flash photography . the strap is horrible and gets in the way of parts of the camera you need access to . if you can afford this camera , you can afford to get a better strap elsewhere - a very minor quibble . good points : the functionality on this camera is mind-blowing . canon have packed a lot in here and the options and controls are easy to use and logically laid out . learning how to use it will not take very long . the image quality is excellent . messing around with images in photoshop ( a supplied software package ) and printing them on a good printer , yielded excellent results . unless you are making posters , a g3 is more than good enough . range of functions - as indicated above - it has something for everyone : point and shoot power plus advanced functions for those who are serious about photography . please note that this is the first digital camera i have owned or used . a lot of my opinions are more relevant for those who are switching from film . i did extensive research before chosing the g3 but there 's nothing like picking one up and playing with it first . 

[t] the best 4mp out there 
[r] the canon g3 is perhaps the best 4mp camera out there . i 've tried the sony s85 with the carl zeiss lens , but the pictures were too digital . with canon , you get pictures that appear to be photos , not still camcorder shots . i love the eos based controls and easy menus . i do n't need to go into exhustive review of this camera . many before me have done that already . i agree with the positive reviews . but there are two things i do n't like about the camera that were not mentioned in any previous reviews . 1 ) the included lens cap is very loose on the camera . though the instruction booklet says that the camera should display " lens " when the cap and the camera are both on , the camera lens extends out and simply takes the lens cap off by itself . i 'm concerned that with the easily removed lens cap , i may damage the lens . very cheaply made . 2 ) the body construction - buttons , casing , etc , are too plastic . the g2 was better in this respect . it had a heavier and more sturdy casing . despite these grieps , i still recommend the camera . 

[t] have n't had practice but i 'm already in love with it 
[r] i have only had this camera for one full day and i have to say that it is wonderful . the photo quality is amazing and i know i 'm going to have fun with all the features . i 've figured out most of its features on my own already ( because i have used digital cameras before , so i know things like symbols ) . i 'm one of those people that can only concentrate on one screen at a time so i 've been having trouble paying attention to the little display panel on top , but that does n't stop me from loving this camera . the reason i rated it a four is because of that darn diopter adjustment dial. its very small and hard to turn so you can 't get an accurate adjustment ( for those of you who do n't know what a diopter adjustment is , it is to adjust the focus of the viewfinder to your eyesight . ) i am going to have so much fun with this camera and when i learn more i will post a more accurate review . 

[t] you 'll take more pics 
[r] i do n't write many reviews but i 'm compelled to do so with this camera . first and foremost , it will take better pic 's than most film camera 's . save them on computer and print out just the ones who want . duplicates are a no brainer and cheap . no more wasted time and money developing rolls of pic 's for just a couple of keepers . crop and enlarge the best at practically no extra cost or time . the technology is finally here folks , to make your photo life easier . a great new use for that underutilized computer . a digital camera will stay at home if its a hassle to use . poor quality pics , short battery life , slow time consuming uploads and printing will ruin the digital camera experience and keep you buying film . this camera has none of these flaws and will be something you 'll use all the time . my wife shuns all new technology and compained when i brought this home , but now she 's forever asking for the digital camera . and i let my kids shoot as many pics as they want , let them review them on the camera and just print the good ones ( which are not many ) . get the canon 850 printer and an ex flash . in short , i have a new slr with an expensive lens and several film point and shoots . i have n't used any of them since i got the g3 . unless your a professional , now you will need only one camera . this one . 

[t] the catch 
[r] the catch with the canon g3 camera , ( and perhaps all of digital cameras ) is that its unresponsiveness will cause you to miss precious shots . prior to the purchase , none of my digital camera friends mentioned the delay between pressing the shutter button and the camera taking the picture . no one told me , but i wanted to tell you . this is not the same thing as a film camera . and while it is cool and fun and has no film processing costs . they have n't got all the bugs worked out just yet . most of the time , my g3 is a well-behaved camera . but once in a while , i run up against it 's major flaw : it sometimes takes the picture at some indefinite period of time after you press the shutter button . i am not talking milliseconds . picture this : your child is going to do a cannonball off the diving board , so you compose the shot and wait for your moment . when it arrives , you press the shutter release . splash ! the moment passes , and then your new g3 camera takes the shot . perhaps there is a way around this delay . some feature i could turn on or off , or some attachment i could get . yes , i push the button down halfway first to avoid the autofocus delay . yes , i have red-eye off , and yes , i 've tried adding a flash . but after trying many adjustments , the camera remains unresponsive when compared to any film-based camera . i own another canon - an eos ( 35mm film ) camera . it focuses in a snap . dim or bright , it would never take a picture after the birthday candles had blown out , after the tae kwon do kick broke the board . canon 's g3 does it consistently . it feels slow to focus , and unbearably slow to shoot . i challenge anyone ( who is not in direct sun at the beach at noon ) to say it is fast and responsive . and so i must ask , what are cameras for ? what task do they perform ? cameras capture moments . they stop time . because once the moment is gone , it is not coming back . the dive , the kick , the blow-out-the-candles moments are , to me , the reason for cameras . a 35mm film camera captures the moments you want , while these digital cameras ( my friends now inform me ) all seem to capture the moment immediately following the one you asked to capture . not all the time , but often enough to be a real problem . like i said , when the moment is gone , it is gone . so buy the g3 . buy it for fun , for lack of processing , because you want to use iphoto , or whatever . but do not assume , as i did , that the g3 has the same ability as [ your current film camera ] to stop the moment you choose . from a dime store disposable to a top of the line eos , all film cameras share this ability to capture the moment you tell them to . unfortunately , this digital moment-capturing device called the g3 sometimes captures the moment after the one you wanted . 

[t] canon g3 review / response / recommendation 
[r] the camera 's a work of art / science -- that 's understood . it takes great pictures , operates quickly , and feels solid . to address two previous somewhat negative reviews : ( 1 ) yes , the lens barrel does obstruct part of the lower left corner in the lens viewfinder ; however , the lcd viewfinder is rather stunning and i find myself rarely using the lens viewfinder . ( 2 ) there are , actually , several differences between the g2 and g3 , such as differences in continuous shooting , the optical lens , the control layout , playback zoom , image processing , and so on . 

[t] within its limitations 
[r] i am a long-time user of highly responsive film slrs and professional quality external flash equipment , just so you know my bias . i have been watching the development of digicams for years , waiting to make my first move . what i really want is a $ 1,500 digital slr with a full frame sensor that will take my nikon lenses . i figure that is at least three years off , and i am getting impatient . hence i decided to spring for a point-and-shoot digicam that that would have features that would let me get around their inherent limitations . i chose the g3 because of its reputation for very high quality , clean images . the two limitations i knew i would have to deal with are the very long lag time before it focus-locks ( even in bright light ) , and the unsatisfactory light quality of the built-in flash . as of this writing , technology has not solved the focus-lock lag time problem for point-and-shoot digicams and anyone who is satisfied with it simply has never used a modern film slr . at least once youve got focus lock , the shutter release lag time for the g3 is about 1/10 of a second , which from what ive read , is better than just about anything else available . what makes the focus-lock lag time something i can live with is the extreme depth of field obtainable with these point and shoot digicams at f8 . once i get focus lock , i can then wait until my restless subject ( a pet or a child ) strikes an amusing pose and then fire the shutter with some reasonable probability of getting my subject still in focus . now what about the flash problem ? relative to what i can easily achieve with external flash on my nikon slr , the internal flash on the g3 produces harsh , flat images with ugly hot spots . fortunately , the g3 has a hot shoe that can take an external flash , and fortunately for me , i already owned a one of the highest quality external flashes that money can buy : the metz 60 ct-4 . i cant use my nikon external flash on a canon camera , but i can use my metz , with the proper metz module and extension cord connected between the g3 and the 60 ct-4 . for those who have this metz flash ( or the 45cl-3 ) and would like to get the absolute ultimate quality out of this g3 , the metz module you need is the sca 3102 and the connector cord is the sca 3000c . in order for this to work , you have to set the camera to manual mode and set the shutter speed and f-stop yourself . contrary to what ive read elsewhere , the g3 does sync at 1/250 of a second with third-party flashes , just as it does with the dedicated flashes from canon . you also have to set the g3 to second shutter sync , which is what youd want to do most of the time anyhow . then just forget about all the controls you have on the metz flash head itself and the sca 3102 control panel , because they are all ignored . the g3 completely takes over controlling the duration of the metz flash , and most of the time , the exposure is spot on and when it isnt , its because youve exceeded the range of the metz flash itself . this might happen if you get too close to the subject and you are not bounce-flashing , or if you are bounce flashing and the walls are simply too far away . unfortunately , the neutral density filters for the metz flash are no longer available , so the first problem cant easily be solved . the second problem is solved by more direct lighting from the metz ( with the attendant shadows unfortunately ) . but once youve got your exposure within an acceptable range , the g3 is shown to produce utterly stunning images that i can hardly get with my nikon f100 film camera . the 60 ct-4 flash head can actually be reversed 180 degrees and then tilted , enabling you to bounce the flash off the walls behind you . the results are shadow-free images that look as if theyve been exposed with the gentlest natural light you could imagine . now there is one more complaint i have about the g3 and that is the software that comes with it for processing raw images ( i only shoot in raw image mode and the first thing i did was replace the 32 mbyte cf with a 512 mbyte cf , which gives me 130 raw images , as opposed to 7 ! the canon software for raw images does not present you with a raw image at all , but the raw image after it has been processed by all the image-affecting settings in the camera . i believe this is enabled by a second file that comes out of the camera that stores all this information . maybe if you delete those files before you looked at them with the software , youd see the true , raw image that the camera actually produces . i didnt wait to experiment . instead , i bought the adobe photoshop camera raw plug-in . what this plug-in reveals is the truly stunning quality of the raw g3 hardware . without any tweaking at all , if the exposure is accurate , the colors are as realistic as ive ever seen produced by film , and this is a raw image ! the adobe camera raw plug-in shows once again that hardware is miles ahead of software . what the g3 raw image software gives you is a fantasy world designed to please the uncritical . what the photoshop plug-in gives you is reality , and then if you want fantasy , you can use photoshop to create it . but at least youre starting with the most photorealistic images ive ever seen from a camera . i am stunned and amazed at the quality of the raw images i am getting from this g3 ( in conjunction with my professional flash system ) , and can easily put up with the cameras limitations , because ive never seen anything better within its resolution limits . 

[t] great gadget 
[r] i bought this last week through amazon . got a great deal from a reputable seller . i love this camera . i am still trying to figure out the may options it has . took hundreds of pictures and they were great . great colors , pictures and white balance . has 4x optical zoom which is higher than any other in the same price range . it is generally overpriced a little bit but you get what you are paying for . 

[t] upgraded from g2 and not looking back 
[r] the powershot g3 is a great camera . why ? because it can help a so-so photographer take spectacular photos ! 4 megapixels is plenty for all but pros , and you will not be disappointed with the results of this camera . it 's slightly lighter than the g2 and packed with even more features . make sure you get a big compactflash card ( it comes with a 32mb ) -- the 512mb cards are pretty [ inexpensive ] here on amazon.com and can hold about 500 photos at a time ! 

